Pytest extension (#89)
john-science/python_for_scientists: classes/17_testing_projects/lecture_17.md

#### Installation

In today's lecture we will cover two testing frameworks: `unittest` and `pytest`.

> The `unittest` framework is included with python, and no additional work is required if python is already installed.
> The `pytest` framework is widely availble with `pip`, `conda`, or virtually any other python package manager.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `unittest` framework is included with Python, and no additional work is required if Python is already installed.
The `pytest` framework is widely available with `pip`, `conda`, or virtually any other Python package manager.
```

More importantly, see that we have used `unittest.mock.patch` to NOT really call `requests.get()` but replace that code with a `MagicMock` that returns the data we want. This is the crux we need to understand to build fast, maintainabe tests. And mocking allows us to easily write tests for code that would otherwise _seem_ untestable.

## Pytest

[Pytest](https://docs.pytest.org/en/8.0.x/) is a popular alternative to unittest.
One nice feature is that tests that have been written with the unittest framework can already be run with pytest.

> For example, the file `test_student.py` can be run on the command line as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, the file `test_student.py` above can be run on the command line as follows:
```

    > pytest test_student.py
    ============================= test session starts ==============================
    platform <platform info>
    rootdir: <path to rootdir>
    collected 3 items

    test_student.py ...                                                      [100%]

    ============================== 3 passed in 0.00s ===============================

> Some advantages that pytest has over unittest is that it enables more pythonic ways to write unit tests, and it has many [helpful plugins](https://docs.pytest.org/en/8.0.x/reference/plugin_list.html#plugin-list).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One advantage of `pytest` over `unittest` is that it supports [plugins](https://docs.pytest.org/en/8.0.x/reference/plugin_list.html#plugin-list).
```

> There are two python projects worth mentioning that are compatible with pytest are [hypothesis](https://hypothesis.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) and [pytest-dependency](https://pypi.org/project/pytest-dependency/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are two Python projects worth mentioning that are compatible with pytest: [hypothesis](https://hypothesis.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) and [pytest-dependency](https://pypi.org/project/pytest-dependency/).
```

For more information on how to get started with pytest checkout the [Get Started](https://docs.pytest.org/en/8.0.x/getting-started.html#get-started) page for a basic introduction.

> For a more indepth introduction [this two hour tutorial](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LX2ksGYXJ80) covers pytest in scientific computing applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For a more in-depth introduction [this two hour tutorial](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LX2ksGYXJ80) covers pytest in scientific computing applications.
```
